# "INSTILL-API"("1")


## NAME



instill-api - Make an authenticated Instill API request 

## SYNOPSIS



**instill api  [flags]** 

## DESCRIPTION



Makes an authenticated HTTP request to the Instill API and prints the response. 

The endpoint argument should be a path of a Instill API endpoint. 

Note that in some shells, for example PowerShell, you may need to enclose any value that contains "{...}" in quotes to prevent the shell from applying special meaning to curly braces. 

The default HTTP request method is "GET" normally and "POST" if any parameters were added. Override the method with ****--method. 

Pass one or more ****--raw-field values in "key=value" format to add string parameters to the request payload. To add non-string parameters, see ****--field below. Note that adding request parameters will automatically switch the request method to POST. To send the parameters as a GET query string instead, use ****--method GET. 

The ****--field flag behaves like ****--raw-field with magic type conversion based on the format of the value: 

    * literal values "true", "false", "null", and integer numbers get converted to appropriate JSON types; 
    * if the value starts with "@", the rest of the value is interpreted as a filename to read the value from. Pass "-" to read from standard input. 

Raw request body may be passed from the outside via a file specified by ****--input. Pass "-" to read from standard input. In this mode, parameters specified via ****--field flags are serialized into URL query parameters. 

## OPTIONS



**--cache**=0s 	Cache the response, e.g. "3600s", "60m", "1h" 

**-F**, **--field**=[] 	Add a typed parameter in ****key=value format 

**-H**, **--header**=[] 	Add a HTTP request header in ****key:value format 

**--hostname**="api.instill.tech" 	Target instance 

**-i**, **--include**[=false] 	Include HTTP response headers in the output 

**--input**="" 	The ****file to use as body for the HTTP request (use "-" to read from standard input) 

**-q**, **--jq**="" 	Query to select values from the response using jq syntax 

**-X**, **--method**="GET" 	The HTTP method for the request 

**-f**, **--raw-field**=[] 	Add a string parameter in ****key=value format 

**--silent**[=false] 	Do not print the response body 

**-t**, **--template**="" 	Format the response using a Go template 

## OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS



**--help**[=false] 	Show help for command 

## EXAMPLE





    
```
# list pipelines
$ instill api pipelines

# list models
$ instill api models

# add parameters to a GET request
$ instill api models?visibility=public

# add parameters to a POST request
$ instill api -X POST oauth2/token?audience=...&grant_type=...

# add nested JSON body to a POST request
$ jq -n '{"contents":[{"url": "https://artifacts.instill.tech/dog.jpg"}]}' | instill api demo/tasks/classification/outputs --input -

# set a custom HTTP header
$ instill api -H 'Authorization: Basic ...'


```


## SEE ALSO



**instill(1)** 

## HISTORY



28-Sep-2023 Auto generated by spf13/cobra 