.nh
.TH "INSTILL-API" "1" "Sep 2023" "Instill AI" "Instill AI Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
instill-api - Make an authenticated Instill API request


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBinstill api  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Makes an authenticated HTTP request to the Instill API and prints the response.

.PP
The endpoint argument should be a path of a Instill API endpoint.

.PP
Note that in some shells, for example PowerShell, you may need to enclose any value that
contains "{...}" in quotes to prevent the shell from applying special meaning to curly braces.

.PP
The default HTTP request method is "GET" normally and "POST" if any parameters
were added. Override the method with \fB\fC--method\fR\&.

.PP
Pass one or more \fB\fC--raw-field\fR values in "key=value" format to add string
parameters to the request payload. To add non-string parameters, see \fB\fC--field\fR below.
Note that adding request parameters will automatically switch the request method to POST.
To send the parameters as a GET query string instead, use \fB\fC--method\fR GET.

.PP
The \fB\fC--field\fR flag behaves like \fB\fC--raw-field\fR with magic type conversion based
on the format of the value:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
literal values "true", "false", "null", and integer numbers get converted to
appropriate JSON types;
.IP \(bu 2
if the value starts with "@", the rest of the value is interpreted as a
filename to read the value from. Pass "-" to read from standard input.

.RE

.PP
Raw request body may be passed from the outside via a file specified by \fB\fC--input\fR\&.
Pass "-" to read from standard input. In this mode, parameters specified via
\fB\fC--field\fR flags are serialized into URL query parameters.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--cache\fP=0s
	Cache the response, e.g. "3600s", "60m", "1h"

.PP
\fB-F\fP, \fB--field\fP=[]
	Add a typed parameter in \fB\fCkey=value\fR format

.PP
\fB-H\fP, \fB--header\fP=[]
	Add a HTTP request header in \fB\fCkey:value\fR format

.PP
\fB--hostname\fP="api.instill.tech"
	Target instance

.PP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--include\fP[=false]
	Include HTTP response headers in the output

.PP
\fB--input\fP=""
	The \fB\fCfile\fR to use as body for the HTTP request (use "-" to read from standard input)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--jq\fP=""
	Query to select values from the response using jq syntax

.PP
\fB-X\fP, \fB--method\fP="GET"
	The HTTP method for the request

.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--raw-field\fP=[]
	Add a string parameter in \fB\fCkey=value\fR format

.PP
\fB--silent\fP[=false]
	Do not print the response body

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--template\fP=""
	Format the response using a Go template


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--help\fP[=false]
	Show help for command


.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.RS

.nf
# list pipelines
$ instill api pipelines

# list models
$ instill api models

# add parameters to a GET request
$ instill api models?visibility=public

# add parameters to a POST request
$ instill api -X POST oauth2/token?audience=...&grant_type=...

# add nested JSON body to a POST request
$ jq -n '{"contents":[{"url": "https://artifacts.instill.tech/dog.jpg"}]}' | instill api demo/tasks/classification/outputs --input -

# set a custom HTTP header
$ instill api -H 'Authorization: Basic ...'


.fi
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBinstill(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
.PP
28-Sep-2023 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
